# wikipoliticians

## Paper Overview
This repository contains data and code for the analysis of Canadian Politicians' popularity and deviciveness. In particular, using data collected from the Wikidata and Wikipedia projects - via the Wikidata Query Service and MediaWiki APIs - this paper describes and models the characteristics of Canadian Politicians which determine their popularity (measured in Wikipedia page views) and their deviciveness (measured by the proportion of Wikipedia page reverted edits to total edits). Such characteristics include Gender, Birthyear and Deathyear, Political Position(s) Held, and Party Affiliation(s).

Following literature on the detection of controversial Wikipedia pages, this paper uses the ratio of reverted page edits to total page edits (over a one year time period) on a politician's Wikipedia page to approximate the page's deviciveness. Reverted edits on a Wikipedia page occur when a Wikipedia user removes the edit of another user from the page, reverting it back to its previous state. Reverts often occur when a page is vandelized or as part of an edit war - wherin users edit and re-edit a Wikipedia page to assert their own viewpoint - both indicative of a page's deviciveness.

## File Structure
The `outputs` folder includes the files needed to reproduce this paper and a pdf copy of the paper itself. The `inputs` folder includes the `data` folder, containing the raw and cleaned data used for this analysis. The `scripts` folder contains `00_simulate_data.R` used to simulate the data used in this paper, `01_import_wikidata.R` and `02_clean_wikidata.R` used to import and clean the Wikidata needed for this paper, as well as `03_import_pagedata.R` and `04_clean_pagedata.R` used to import and clean the Wikipedia page data needed for this paper.
